For this project I built a smart thermostat system using the Raspberry Pi. The purpose of the project is to have a system that can read the current temperature from a sensor attached to the Raspberry Pi and then control the heating or cooling based on the set point that the user can adjust with the relevant buttons. It also uses LED to show the current state, at heat set point, cooling to set point, etc. There is also an LCD screen that displays relevant data to the user, current date and time, current temperature, current state, and the set point of the temperature. It also uses UART communication to simulate sending data to a server.

During this project, I felt putting the components together was done well. I initially thought I messed it up somewhere but ended up being a different issue all together. Taking note of the pin-to-pin connections was vital for this project, instead of going of the breadboard directions as they seemed to differ greatly in design. 

One area I think I could improve on is troubleshooting. I had a huge issue with the LCD screen not working. I thought it was the connections at one point; at another point I thought maybe there was something wrong with the screen all together. It ended up just being my lack of understanding of the device as I had not fully inserted the ribbon cable into the breadboard even though I thought I had it in properly and securely. Going through from the very beginning might have helped in this situation.

During this project I learned of many new tools and resources that helped me along. Many were official documentation for the Raspberry Pi as well as some online forums that ended up being pretty useful, Stack Overflow was one that I used a few times though it didn't have the answers I was looking for at the time. Looking at other examples and projects also helped, I went to YouTube and found someone making something somewhat similar connection wise.

From this project I learned many things that will help me in future classes and with my career, the most important, I believe, would be how software and hardware can make connections and how to work with embedded systems that seem to be becoming increasingly prominent in society. I also learned a lot more about debugging and troubleshooting as that was my biggest issue in this project. As soon as I figured the problem out it was basically done.
